[SWOOSH]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I'm radio and television
host Jimmy Church,
and I am here to uncover
the truth about some
of life's biggest mysteries.
If this is revealed,
everything has to be rewritten.
My guest today is Andrew
Gough, historical investigator
exploring the secrets of the
Temple of Solomon's treasures
and the enduring
Knights Templar legacy.
>> The Knights Templar were
given residence over the Holy
of Holies in 1119, and they
undoubtedly were looking
for some very specific objects.
>> As always, MUFON
Field Investigator Josh--
>> Josh, can you
pull up the map?
>> Yeah.
>> --joins us to
help set the scene.
Join us as we dive deep to
get to the bottom of some
of the most intriguing
questions of our time.
>> I believe these things were
buried because our overlords
aren't very nice people.
And the day when these
overlords are gone,
this information can come out
and we can all benefit from it.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Welcome to "Into the Vortex."
I'm your host Jimmy Church.
And today, I'm talking
to Andrew Gough.
We're going to go into
deep history today.
He's a historian and
specializes on the Ark
of the Covenant, and
of course, research
into artifacts out of
the Temple of Solomon.
And Josh, before we get
started, deep history today.
This is what the world
is talking about.
There is an interest
about things
that may have been held
from us in the past.
What do you think
about this, and are we
about to get the big reveal?
>> More and more, every
day is getting revealed.
I'm excited, all this new
information I wasn't aware of.
And I'm getting more
and more into it.
I find it fascinating.
>> Deep history is
where we're at, Andrew.
We talk about the Ark of
the Covenant and the Knights
Templar, and Steven
Spielberg will
come to mind, and
all of these things.
And we all want to be that.
There's a fascination there.
How accurate is the
stuff that's been
depicted about the
historical significance
of the Temple of Solomon?
>> Yeah, that's the
question, right?
It's such a romantic
subject that people just
extrapolate on very
flimsy foundations
and make these incredible
stories and mythologies
about something that we're
not entirely sure what it was
or if the temple even
existed in the first place,
or if Solomon even existed
in the first place.
But what we do know is
that the legend is greater
than any other from Antiquity.
>> Now, then we
have the other side,
the religious aspect of
it, and its importance.
And it's been ransacked.
It's been built. It's been
rebuilt. What's under it?
The tunnels.
The religious side of
it is just as important.
>> Yeah, it's very
charged, as you know.
And the prophecies about
what happens if you do
find something like the
Ark of the Covenant.
And if you do, go ahead
and build the third temple.
The implications from
a religious standpoint,
a political standpoint, a world
awareness standpoint are huge.
So it makes me wonder
if the Ark is out there
and someone has discovered it.
Would you want anyone to know?
>> Do we know really what
the temple looked like?
And is there any
evidence showing that?
Because it's been rebuilt. It's
been built. It's been attacked.
It's been invaded.
But originally, the original
design, what did it look like?
>> Yeah, so what we have left
is the second temple, right?
And we can go to
Jerusalem and look at it
and touch it and feel it.
The first temple?
Hmm.
Not so sure.
It could be because we're
looking in the wrong era.
Maybe it's older.
Maybe it's more recent
than we think it is.
But what we do know is that
it was a massive edifice that
was created, amongst
other purposes,
to have the Ark of the Covenant
and other sacred relics
in something called
the Holy of the Holies.
But we know very little
about where it was.
And historians and scholars
enthusiastically, let's put it
that way, debate the whereabouts
of it, the existence of it
to this very day.
>> Can we actually stop
right there for a second?
Because when we talk
about the general layout
of these temples,
you have access to--
and then you have access.
And then you have
the Holy of Holies
where nobody can go into.
It's a very privileged area.
>> Right.
>> And nobody really gets to
see what is in there, right?
Is that the tradition, to
have these chambers get
more and more secret as you go
deeper into the temple itself?
>> Absolutely.
The high priests
were the only ones
who had access to
the Holy of Holies,
and even they on just
particular dates.
Where I think the Ark of
the Covenant might be today
is guarded, and it has
been guarded for centuries
by sultans who only had access
to it on one day of the year,
during Ramadan.
So that whole tradition
of the most sacred relics
are in a place that is so
guarded that very few get
a chance to ever see them.
>> So the Knights Templar, if
we go with the romantic side
of this and the Crusades and
they arrive in Jerusalem,
these stories--
and I don't want to
call it folklore,
but it's kind of
hard to nail down.
But it appears that they were
interested in what was there
and what was hidden there
at the temple itself.
What are some of the examples
of the artifacts that they
would have been looking for?
>> Well, as we know,
or as we've been told,
the Knights Templar were
given residence over the Holy
of the Holies in 1119, and
they undoubtedly were looking
for some very specific objects.
So you have the legendary Temple
of Solomon treasure, which
includes the Ark of the
Covenant, which included
in itself the Ten Commandments,
the staff of Aaron,
and a pot of manna.
But you have, according
to Solomon's mythology,
500 tons of gold, gold
from the Garden of Eden.
You have the menorah,
the tabernacle.
You have all these incredible
artifacts right there
in the Holy of Holies.
>> Now, let's take a look at
the Ark of the Covenant really
quick.
Josh, if you could pull this
up, this is a general idea.
And I think that we're all
used to what it may be.
But when we look at this image
of the Ark of the Covenant,
what are we looking at?
Dimension-wise,
is this accurate?
>> Yeah, well, you know,
I travel a lot and I see
representations of the
Ark many places I go.
This is in Paris, in a church
of St. Mary the Virgin,
not too far from the Louvre.
And the instructions for
the Ark are really specific.
It's 51 inches in
length, 31 inches deep,
and 31 inches wide.
They left no doubt about that.
>> So anybody
could build an Ark.
>> Anyone could build an Ark.
And you know, it has a
certain kind of wood,
and it has a certain
kind of gold on the top,
and it has the two winged
angels, as you see here.
And this is just
a rendition of--
anyone could create
something that
looks like this because
the instructions to build
it are so uniquely specific.
Nowhere else in
ancient texts do you
find dimensions and
contents and substances that
go into a product
like you do when
they're talking about the Ark.
And actually, it makes
me a little suspicious.
>> Now, this obviously isn't
the actual Ark because I can see
a depiction of the cross there.
And the original Ark--
that's in the time of Moses--
predates the time of Jesus.
So this was built after
Jesus came and went, right?
>> Absolutely.
So this is just an
enthusiast building
an ark for their church,
and we see that many places.
I've seen it in
Saint-Sulpice in Paris.
I've seen it in churches
in London where I live.
Because the directions
are so specific
and the dimensions
are so specific,
it's easy to recreate
what it looks like.
And people do that
just to honor it.
Here you can see images
of the cross and things
that came much
later than the Ark.
The Ark of Moses was
about 1500 BC-ish.
>> Yeah, 1500 BC.
And so if you rebuild the acacia
wood and your gold plating
and you've got the
right angels on the top
shafts and the rings
and you build it
correctly, is it magical?
Does it have power?
>> Yeah.
No, great question.
So if you were to ask
me, what is the Ark,
I'm going to tell
you, I don't know.
It appears-- well,
the Ark of Moses.
Let's be really specific
because there are probably
many different arks,
but there's only
one Ark of Moses
that was created
at the foot of Mount Sinai.
And that's the one that
I've been researching.
I don't think--
I might be wrong.
If you and I went out
and bought the materials
and created one
today, that we could
create some kind of
cosmic energy effect
that the Ark is legendary for.
>> I would love to try.
>> I'd like to try.
>> Now, you mentioned
the staff of Moses.
Now, this is very intriguing
to me too as well.
And so at the Temple
of Solomon, this
would have been something
else in the Holy of Holies.
>> Well, yes.
We have the staff of Moses.
Everyone's heard about that.
Arguably, that was a big, proper
staff, a staff like a pharaoh
would have.
But his brother, Aaron,
also had a staff.
And it was equally as magical,
according to the Old Testament.
However, it was a
different kind of staff.
It wasn't like a
pharaoh's staff.
And it had little buds that
were coming out of the staff.
And it's this staff that
was inside the Ark of Moses.
>> Now, we've got an im--
yeah, pull it up, Josh.
Is this what you're
referring to?
>> Yeah.
So this is in Istanbul in
Topkapi Palace in a museum
and in the privy chamber
of the museum that
has some of the holiest
relics from Antiquity.
They call this the
staff of Moses.
And when I look at it--
and for reasons I'll
share in a moment--
I don't think it's the
staff of Moses at all.
I think it's the staff of Aaron.
Also--
>> Why?
Because you can see the
little kind of buds.
And perhaps-- I've been going
here for about 15 years,
and they've just allowed you to
photograph it, thank goodness.
It's small.
It would fit into
a 51-inch chest.
It has the growths on it
that the Old Testament
says the staff of Aaron did.
So I look at that
and I think, no.
That's not the staff of Moses.
It's the staff of Aaron.
>> So it's not very big.
>> It's not very big.
And it would have to
be kind of small-ish
if it's going to fit into
a 51-inch chest, right?
And for instance,
a friend of mine,
a colleague, Graham Phillips,
argues the staff of Moses
is a big pharaoh's staff.
It's in a museum in Birmingham.
This is his brother's staff,
and it's altogether different.
But this is in a room that
has the pot of Abraham.
It has the turban of Joseph.
It has scripture from
John the Baptist.
It has his arm.
And it has everything
of Muhammad.
His footprint, his
beard, his teeth.
It has all these sacred
relics, including
the Shroud of the
Holy Stone of Kaaba
and the keys to the Kaaba.
But it's what is
in the other room
30 feet away that
really got me thinking,
that is not the staff of
Moses, but the staff of Aaron.
>> And what was
in the other room?
>> So all those incredible
relics are in the room I just
described, right?
You can walk around, touch
the screen, take your time,
look at them.
You walk into the
other room and you
have men looking very serious
with semi-automatic machine
guns and a chap who reads out
loud live from the Quran 24
hours a day because what's
in there is so much more
holy than what's in there.
>> We're talking
about the Holy Mantle.
>> The Holy Mantle.
>> OK.
Now, I've got an image
of the Holy Mantle.
And as we pull this up, you
make an interesting comment
that this is guarded, right?
Armed, armed gentlemen.
And not to get
ahead of our skis,
but there are other
locations around the world
with alleged Ark
of the Covenants
that are unguarded, right?
And you would think that if
it is the Ark of the Covenant
that held the Ten
Commandments and built
by Moses, by instructions
of God at the foot--
foothills of Mount Sinai that
it would be better protected.
But is this the Holy Mantle?
>> I look at this and I
think, OK, it's in a big room,
shielded with glass, and scary
men with these machine guns,
right?
I'm like, OK, well,
what's in that chest
because it must be
incredible, right?
Well, it is a coat
that Muhammad gave
to his friend who was a poet.
And I think, OK, that's cool.
Got it.
That's sacred.
But it's nothing like
what's in the other room.
Then I researched that,
and there's another chest
in the foreground.
You can't see it in this photo.
Same sort of thing.
It has a flag or a banner from
the period that Muhammad lived.
But these chests were
taken out into battle
by the Ottomans and others.
>> Like the Ark of the Covenant.
Like, Joshua and the Philistines
took it out in the battle.
They took this chest
out into battle.
And then it occurred to me,
it's not what's in the chest.
It's not the coat that Muhammad
gave his friend, the poet.
It's the chest itself.
It's the only
reason why it would
be guarded by men
with machine guns
and a chap who reads live
from the Quran 24 hours a day.
>> Right.
Right.
Is there dating on
the Holy Mantle?
>> Yes.
I mean, like everything--
and forgive me
for being cynical-- in
today's world of the Internet,
we're censored.
Imagine how easy it would
be to censor something
before the internet,
before the printing press,
back in this era.
>> You could do
whatever you want.
>> You could say
anything you want, right?
So the history of this is
that it comes from Egypt, et
cetera, et cetera.
Very vague.
Not ancient.
>> Is it inscribed?
Is there anything on
it that would identify?
>> So the Ottomans inscribed
various things that the sultans
imbued with it because the
sultans actually were the only
ones allowed to see it, and only
one day a year during Ramadan.
No one else could
approach that chest.
They could see the other stuff,
but they couldn't see this.
And I just think it's really
conspicuous, especially when--
so you have the chest
they took out into battle.
In the other room
you have the staff
of Aaron, which
was in this chest,
in the Ark of the Covenant.
You have Abraham's bowl, pot.
But what if that was just a
renaming of the pot of manna
that was in the Ark
of the Covenant?
And you have loads of
tablets in this museum
just like the alleged
Ten Commandments.
>> So what you're
suggesting here--
Josh, are you putting
this together?
Are you suggesting that
that chest is possibly
the Ark of the Covenant
that had everything in it
and that was brought to Turkey
by the Knights Templar who
would have brought it to Turkey?
>> Well, great question.
So I call this journey
to Constantinople the ark
on the run because literally,
you have the temple built
in 1000 BC, right?
And then the Egyptians come,
and they take it to Tanis,
and we see that
scene in "Indiana
Jones and the Temple of Doom."
But then in 586, the
Babylonians come and take it
back to Babylonia.
Or did Jeremiah take
it to Mount Nebo?
No one knows.
60 years later, the
second temple's built.
But then for 500
years, it's pretty calm
until the Romans come in 70 AD
and sack it and just totally
destroy the second temple,
take the booty back to Rome,
parade it through the city.
And on the Arch of Titus,
you can see the menorah.
You can see things
that look like the Ark,
although historians
will say, no, it's not.
It's this or it's that.
And from that point onwards,
no one cares about Jerusalem.
They start to sack Rome.
The Visigoths come
in in 410, and they
take two days worth of sacking
back to the French Pyrenees.
And this is interesting
because that's
where you have the
legend of Parsifal
and the Sacred Chalice
and the Holy Grail.
And this is where the
world's greatest grail
hunter, Otto Rahn, went.
This is where Dan Brown got
his story for "The DA Vinci
Code," the mystery
of Rennes-Le-Chateau,
the Holy Blood and
the Holy Grail.
So the artifacts of Solomon go
to Rome and go to the Pyrenees.
But guess what?
The Visigoths were
there for two days.
They barely scratched
the surface,
and the Romans saw them coming.
50 years later, the vandals
come, hence the term vandalism.
Yeah, so the vandals take the
treasure back to North Africa,
to Carthage.
And Rome knows
what they've lost,
so they get in their
ships and chase them,
but they can't catch them.
So you have the
treasure of Solomon.
They were there for two weeks,
and Rome never saw it coming.
So they really took
all there was to take.
Now, fast forward
a couple of years.
The Hagia Sophia has burned to
the ground in the Nika riots.
You have Justinian, the emperor.
He hears that the
vandals have assassinated
their Catholic king.
He's not pleased about that,
so he sends his general
to go sort it out.
The general goes
there and comes back
with the treasures
of Solomon, which
are inventoried by a historian
who says, OK, you've got it.
Now what are you
going to do with it?
And he makes this ambiguous
comment about, well, of course,
I'll return it to
whence it came.
But he's about to open the
greatest temple on the planet,
the Hagia Sophia.
And when it is opened-- they
wouldn't let him near it
for the months leading up to
the final opening ceremony,
if you will.
And Justinian goes in,
and what does he say?
And he says, Solomon,
I have outdone thee.
Of course, he has.
He has effectively the third
temple, the greatest temple
on the planet, and the Ark.
>> Now, when we look at
the time in a linear sense,
the timing of all of this,
when the Templars arrive
in Jerusalem, are they
recovering and looking
at duplicates?
Are they looking at
the actual artifacts?
Are they looking at Ark of
the Covenant version 1 Moses?
Are they looking at a duplicate?
And that includes--
because everybody wanted
these biblical artifacts.
Everybody wanted the True Cross
or the Ark or the Holy Grail,
and there's different
versions of everything.
So what was it that
the Knights Templar--
were they seeing the real thing?
>> Well, great question
because everybody said, OK,
second temple has been sacked.
Rome took it.
We'll leave Jerusalem alone.
They don't have anything.
>> Well, the Knights
Templar begged to differ.
And they rock up there, and they
find what they're looking for.
Now, nobody knows
what they found.
And if they tell
you, question it,
because what I surmise is they
may have found or have been
given something like the
Copper Scroll that let them
know what was buried where.
And it probably wasn't just the
temple and the Holy of Holies.
It could have been other
sites around the Holy Land.
Our research shows that when
they were founded roughly 1119
in Jerusalem over the
old Holy of Holies,
they didn't waste any time.
They took the mother lode
to the South of France,
and they took it to a
place near the meridian.
And the meridians
become really curious
because back then, there wasn't
a meridian, not in France.
So why are these
locations so important?
Our research shows that
the mother lode was there
near the meridian
for about 80 years.
And what's interesting is
the Knights Templar just
didn't mess around in
Europe, in the Middle East.
They went all over the world.
Iceland to Russia, South
America, South Africa.
They were everywhere.
So they have all these
relics, but not just relics.
They have information.
Papyrus, books,
knowledge, devices.
That's all, according
to our research
now in the South of France.
They move it up to Le
Havre after 80 years.
So it's in the North of France.
Two boats to Nova Scotia,
three boats to England.
>> OK, let's stop right there.
We have a collection of
relics in Rome at 580, right?
And with the rebuilding
of temples and the last
of the Caesars, and so forth.
That's going on.
We have Helen and stuff
going up to Turkey.
We have the Knights Templar
coming in at 1100 AD, all
looking for the same relics.
Who's got the real stuff?
Was it the Knights
Templar that ultimately
got into those tunnels
and underneath the temple
and retrieved the real stuff?
And if that's the case,
what's sitting in Rome,
and what's sitting
up in Constantinople?
You know, modern Turkey.
>> Sure.
I mean, great question.
And what mystifies me is
that the historians account
for the Ark last being
seen in Constantinople.
Nobody talks about that.
It's like the 600-pound gorilla.
What I find fascinating
is fast forward to 1453.
Mehmed the Conqueror is trying
to do what no Ottoman's ever--
no anyone's ever done before
is conquer Constantinople.
All his armies
have been defeated.
He has one army left and
he's ready to roll the dice.
And all of a sudden, out of
the top of the Hagia Sophia
are these lights
going up into the sky.
Massive lights.
Firsthand accounts
from various people--
>> It's been depicted
historically.
>> Been depicted historically.
Television programs,
you can see this.
And Mehmed went, holy cow.
I can't-- Allah is on
their side, clearly.
Well, after three or
four days of this light
going up from the top of the
Hagia Sophia into the sky--
and by the way, the
Hagia Sophia now
has four cherubim,
four angels with wings
on the top of the inside,
just like the Ark.
But these lights move out
of the city and disappear.
And Mehmed says, mm.
Allah has forsaken them.
Let's go.
And he conquers Constantinople.
But that tells me--
and no one's put two
and two together.
It's not rocket
science, I don't think.
What if they were
trying to activate
the Ark after 1,000 years?
Didn't know how to do
it, but they managed
to activate some element.
>> Maybe it activated itself.
>> Hmm.
>> Right.
Right.
Now, OK.
Again, if some of this
went to North America,
some of it to Scotland,
and some of it
is in the South of France,
where is this today,
and what evidence do we have
that these holy relics did
actually make it out of
Jerusalem and are in--
and wouldn't state actors be
involved with protecting this
with machine guns?
>> Yeah.
Again, great question
because I don't
think there's anything
from the Temple of Solomon
left in Jerusalem.
Nothing substantial.
Nor in Rome.
Maybe a few things.
Constantinople has always
been the place where
these relics would have been.
In 330, Constantine created
this incredible pillar
that had not the True Cross,
but the two chaps that
were crucified with Christ.
It had the baskets from the
loaves and the fish miracle.
It had jars of Mary Magdalene.
So it's always been the place
where sacred relics were taken.
But the Knights Templar
are in possession
of the lion's
share of the relics
and the bodies of
the patriarchs.
And our research shows the two
ships that went to Nova Scotia,
they've got some
goodies on them,
but you're not going
to risk that ocean
voyage with the big stuff.
That's going to England.
And it's going to go
overland-- guess what--
to the prime
meridian once again.
Something about the meridian.
I can't answer it.
But I just look and
see where it was
in France, where the
lion's share of it
is today in England
where I'm excavating it
with my team, my
colleagues and I.
And it's interesting that
that's where they place it.
>> Now, OK.
The big question.
Well, there's two
big questions here.
I'll let you ask the
biggest one, Josh.
But what's coming
out of the ground?
What is being excavated?
What everybody wants.
It's about the evidence.
Let's see what you've got.
What are you-- what are you
getting out of the ground?
>> My colleague has a technique.
And it's going to
sound silly, and people
are going to think, oh,
it's a bit woo-woo for me,
but a technique of finding where
these underground chambers are.
My job is to validate that with
state-of-the-art technology.
So I have used literally
SpaceX satellites,
which are the world's most
powerful tools for identifying
deep underground military
bases, et cetera.
I've used the latest
GPRS technology.
I've used dowsers that
Exxon employs to find oil.
I've used remote viewers,
psychics, and mediums.
I've thrown the
kitchen sink at it.
And I must say, it's important
to note for the viewers
and authorities in particular
that we're absolutely
proceeding in accordance
with the 1996 Treasure Act.
We're under contract
with homeowners.
Everything is above board.
Councils are made aware
of what we're doing.
But here is the
interesting thing.
We have found some things at 10
meters that shouldn't be there.
The viewers will forgive
me for not being explicit.
But what I will say-- and if
this wasn't happening to me,
I would think it's rubbish.
But these sites are protected.
>> By who?
>> Magically, spiritually.
>> OK.
I'm all about the woo.
And so you're saying
30 feet, right?
10 meters?
30 feet?
Give me an idea of size and age.
>> The chambers appear to be
around eight to 10 meters deep.
And the age is around--
at the time of the
Knights Templar.
So in the early 13th century.
And the thing about
them being protected--
>> Is this like the
pharaoh's curse?
>> Well, [SIGH] I don't think
it's the pharaoh's curse,
but the question I
ask is, 10 meters.
That's more deep than
any house or skyscraper
is going to expose.
So when you're the
Knights Templar,
it's 11th, 12th, 13th century.
You have the greatest relics
and most valuable possessions
on Earth.
Cash them in.
Have a good life.
Build some castles.
Kick back.
No.
They hide them.
And they hide them so
deep and so obscure
that they're not meant to be
found for a very long time.
They just didn't put them
in the ground for 100 years
until things smoothed
over with Philip the Fair.
They've put them in
there for the long term.
And why is a question
that I continue to ask.
>> Did the transport of stuff to
Nova Scotia, did it stop there?
Did it go further
into North America?
Did it go inland?
Or did it just find its way
on one of the islands there,
so to speak?
>> First of all, the brains
of the operation that I'm part
of is Klaus Dona, and his work
is what I support and work hand
in glove with.
In terms of Nova Scotia, they
should look on the mainland.
And you think about
the fact that you
don't want to sink a ship
with all the biggies in it.
>> That's right.
>> So the ships that
went to Nova Scotia,
they've got some goodies, but
they also have some bodies.
I mean, think Solomon,
Bathsheba, Aaron, David.
We never found those tombs.
They must have massive tombs.
If they were in Jerusalem,
we would have found them.
They would have had very amazing
places of memorial, but no.
So they've gone.
>> Do you think--
and it's the big-- the
million dollar question,
but do you think that the
Indigenous cultures of North
America would have welcomed
ships and things like this
to be brought onto the mainland
and that they would have
a history of where these--
not only locations of
this, but the relationship
that was built?
>> Yeah.
I mean, the era--
again, we're talking
sort of early 13th century.
So you think about who
the Native Americans
were at that time.
>> Right.
Right.
>> I don't know how you could
not have entrusted them.
So it's a very good question.
But they buried them with
a high degree of confidence
that you're not going to have
pirates digging them back up.
The example I like to use--
and I've done a lot of work
on Yamashita's gold
in the Philippines.
Yamashita sacked-- not
Yamashita-- the Japanese sacked
12 Asian countries
for 100 years.
Every museum piece, every
gold bar, private collections.
And that was going to fuel their
country for hundreds of years
to come, but didn't
work out that way.
So the end of World War II, they
bury them in the Philippines.
And we know that these
amazing artifacts were buried,
and historically were told the
Shinto priest would go down
into the chambers-- and
I've been there, 15 meters,
straight down--
and perform rituals to
make sure that what's down
there won't be seen.
It'll be forgotten.
It'll never be
found, and certainly
not by someone who's not worthy.
And I've been to these villages,
and I've spoken to the locals.
And they see these ghost dancers
of Japanese soldiers going
up and down the street
by the tombs where
all these treasures are buried.
And that's in modern times that
rituals are being performed
to make the treasure invisible.
>> Now, when it comes
to the Knights Templar--
and we think of historically
it is the Red Cross
and the shining armor.
Well, that really
wasn't the case.
These guys were rough.
They were tough.
They were smart.
They were businessmen.
They knew a lot.
The modern-day version
of the Knights Templar,
are they covering
up the-- do they
know where these locations are?
Do they know the secret history?
Or is this a tradition that has
constantly been handed down?
>> I don't think it has.
I think it's been
completely lost.
One of the places that
we're excavating now, I do
believe people are aware
of what's down there.
It's a whole village and
in one particular location.
So some of these
locations are known.
Some have just been
completely lost through time.
And in this world,
you need a combination
of old school and new school
technology to find them.
>> What do you think, Josh?
>> Well, I do have one
big, burning question here.
There's been a lot of intrigue,
a lot of locations mentioned.
But where do you think
the actual real--
not a replica of the Ark of
the Covenant resides today?
>> It's a great question.
I mean, it was
last seen in 1453,
as far as I was
concerned, and it
was in the vicinity
of Constantinople.
Can I tell you a really
quick story about that?
Because just 10 years ago, three
Turkish men went and found--
and I have a home in Istanbul,
so I spent a lot of time
there looking at these sites
and investigating firsthand.
They found an
underground tunnel system
that is near the Hagia
Sophia, in the old town,
in Sultanahmet.
And they have a big
generator, and they're going
and they're researching and
trying to find these relics.
And all of the sudden,
they run out of kerosene.
So the one chap says, I'll
go back, and you wait here,
and I'll get some more
kerosene for our lamp.
He comes back.
The other two guys are dead,
and just brutally murdered.
I mean, dismembered,
the one chap.
So he goes and reports it to the
police, and they're like, ha.
You murdered them.
So they put him in jail.
But fortunately, the
one chap recovers.
He lives.
And he goes, wh--
you've arrested my friend.
He didn't do it.
They were giants.
They were huge.
And they weren't human.
And I'm not even sure
if they were real,
but they just beat the
daylights out of us.
They were guarding something.
>> OK.
First off, thank you, Andrew.
What a great conversation today.
And keep the-- the
work needs to be done.
But can we expect-- the
world wants to see something,
you know, whether it is the
True Cross or the Holy Grail
or the staff of Moses, or of
course the Ark of the Covenant,
are we going to
finally see something?
>> I really hope so.
I believe we have
found something.
The heat dissipation
from the SpaceX satellite
show precious metals
at regular intervals
and tunnels and chambers.
That's physical proof.
Now, the question that
I have is twofold.
One, not anyone's going to
be allowed to extract it.
So one, are you worthy?
Are you in it for
the money, or do you
want to have the truth revealed?
Two, is the time right?
I believe these things were
buried because our overlords
aren't very nice people.
And the day when these
overlords are gone,
this information can come out
and we can all benefit from it.
And I hope that
time is very soon.
>> Truly amazing work.
What a fascinating conversation.
Thank you so much, Andrew.
And seriously, keep up the work.
And when the big reveal
happens, do it here
on "Into the Vortex."
>> Absolutely.
Will do.
Thanks for having me, Jimmy.
Thanks, Josh.
>> Thank you.
>> And there you go.
"Into the Vortex."
I'm your host, Jimmy Church.
[MUSIC PLAYING]